---
layout: post
title:  "Week2 notes"
date:   2020-01-11 20:11:01 +0800
categories: AdvAI
---

# Information Theory & Kolmogorov Complexity  

## Philosophical Issues  
We need a general & formal & complete & consistent theory for induction & prediction.  

A unique principle for prediction.  
We have Occam's razor.  
Problem: Not a formal/mathematical objective principle.  

## Definitions & Notation  
$i, k, n, t \in \mathbb{N} = \\{ 1, 2, 3,... \\} \\\ \mathbb{B} = \\{0, 1\\} \\\ x, y, z \in \mathbb{B}^* \\\ \omega \in \mathbb{B}^\infty$  
$\epsilon$ is empty string  
$1^n$ the string of $n$ ones  
$\ell (x)$ the length of string $x$  
$xy = x \circ y$ the concatenation of string $x$ with $y$  

Every countable set is $\cong \mathbb{N}$.  
Interpret string with binary.  
Problem: Not unique.
Use bijection between $\mathbb{N}$ and $\mathbb{B}^\*$.  
First-order prefix coding $\bar{x} := 1^{\ell (x)}0x.$  
Second-order prefix coding $x\` := \overline{\ell (x)} x$.

$\ell (x) \leq \log (x + 1)$  
$\ell (\bar{x}) \leq 2\log x$  
$\ell (x\`) \leq \log x + 2\log \log x$

String $x$ is prefix of $y :\Leftrightarrow \exists z (\neq \epsilon)$ such that $xz = y$.  
Set $\mathcal{P}$ is prefix-free = no element is prefix of another.

**Theorem 2.1 (Kraft Inequality)**  
For a prefix code $\mathcal{P}$ we have $\sum_{x \in \mathcal{P}}2^{-\ell (x)} \leq 1$.  

Set of $\bar{x}$ is a prefix code.  
Set of $x\`$ is a prefix code.  
Pair string $\langle x, y \rangle = x\`y$.  
$f(x, y) = f(x\`y)$  

## Turing Machines  
**Thesis 2.2 (Turing)**  
Everything that can be reasonably said to be computable by a human using a fixed procedure can also be computed by a Turing machine.  

**Thesis 2.3 (Church)**  
The class of algorithmically computable numerical functions (in the intuitive sense) coincides with the class of partial recursive functions.  

**Assumption 2.4 (Short compiler)**  
Given two natural Turing-equivalent formal systems F1 and F2, then there always exists a single short program on F2 which is capable of interpreting all F1-programs.  

**Definition 2.5 (Prefix TM (pTM))**  
	1. one unidirectional read-only input tape  
	2. one unidirectional write-only input tape  
	3. some bidirectional work tapes, initially filled with zeros  
	4. all tapes are binary  
	5. T halts on input p with output x  
	6. {$p : \exists x: T(p) = x$} forms a prefix code  
	7. $p$ is self-delimiting program  

**Definition 2.6 (Monotone Turing Machine)**  
	1\~4  
	5. T outputs/computes a string starting with x on input p  
	6. T may continue operation and need not to halt  
	7. {$p : T(p) = x^\*$} forms a prefix code  
	8. $p$ is minimal program  

**Theorem 2.7 (Universal prefix/monotone Turing machine $U$)**  
which simulates (any) pTM/mTM $T_i$ with input $y\`q$ if fed with input $y\`i\`q$, i.e.  
$$U(y`i`q) = T_i(y`q) \quad \forall y,i,q$$  
For $p \neq y\`i\`q, U(p)$ outputs nothing. $y$ is side information.  

**Theorem 2.8 (Halting Problem)**  
There is no TM $T: T(i\`p) = 1 \Leftrightarrow T_i(p))$ does not halt.  

## Kolmogorov Complexity  
**Theorem 2.9 (Universality/Minimality of $K_U$)**  
$K_U(x) \leq K_T(x) + c_{TU}$,  
where $c_{TU} <^+ K_U(T) < \infty$ is independent of $x$  

**Definition 2.10 ((conditional) prefix Kolmogorov complexity)**  
= shortest program $p$, for which reference $U$ outputs $x$ (given $y$):  
$K(x) := \min_{p} \\{\ell (p) : U(p) = x\\},$  
$K(x|y) := \min_{p} \\{\ell (p) : U(y\`p) = x\\}$  

**Theorem 2.11 (Upper Bound on $K$)**  
$K(x) <^+ \ell (x) + 2 \log \ell (x), \quad K(n) <^+ \log n + 2\log \log n$  

**Theorem 2.12 (Lower bound for most $n$, Kraft inequality)**  
$\sum_{x \in \mathbb{B}^\*} 2^{-K(x)} \leq 1, \quad K(x) \geq l(x)$ for 'most' $x$  
$K(x) \to \infty$ for $n \to \infty$  

**Theorem 2.13 (Extra Information)**  
$K(x | y) <^+ K(x) <^+ K(x, y)$  

**Theorem 2.14 (Subadditivity)**  
$K(xy) <^+ K(x, y) <^+ K(x) + K(y | x) <^+ K(x) + K(y)$  

**Theorem 2.15 (Symmetry of Information)**  
$K(x | y, K(y)) + K(y) =^+ K(x, y) =^+ K(y, x) =^+ K(y |x, K(x)) + K(x)$  

**Theorem 2.16 (Information Non-Increase)**  
$K(f(x)) <^+ K(x) + K(f)$ for recursive $f: \mathbb{B}^\* \to \mathbb{B}^\*$  

**Theorem 2.17 (Probability coding / MDL)**  
$K(x) <^+ -\log P(x) + K(P)$  
if $P : \mathbb{B}^\* \to \[0, 1\]$ is enumerable and $\sum_{x \in \mathbb{B}^\*} P(x) \leq 1$  
