---
layout: post
title:  "Software Security Notes 6 Disassembly"
date:   2021-3-4 07:00:00 +0800
categories: [Notes, Software Security]
---

# Static Disassembly  
Load a binary  
find machine instructions in binary  
disassemble into human- or machine readable form  

## Recursive Disassembly  
Starts from known entry points  
Recursively follows control flow  
Used in many reverse-engineering applications 

# Dynamic Disassembly  
Runtime information can resolve indirect calls, distinguishing data vs code  
It allows for execution tracers to dump instructions, memory/register contents  
Code coverage problem  

## Code coverage
### test suites  
Use known test inputs, manually developed, toincrease code coverage.  
Trying to cover as much of the program’s functionality as possible.  
Ready-made test suites aren’t always available.  
Application specific.  

### Fuzzing  
Automatically generate inputs  
Favoring executing lots of tests to heavy duty analysis  
Generation-based fuzzer  
Mutation-based fuzzer  

## Symbolic Execution  
Execute not with concrete values but symblic values  
One exection path will generate a set of constraints  
Path explosion  


# Structuring Disassembled Code and Data  
Compartmentalizing  
- Breaking code into logically connected chunks and make it easier to understand the relationship between chunks.  
Revealing control flow  
- Some structures can reveal control flow. Especially in visual representation, it can make it easier to see how control flows through the code and to get a quick idea of what the code does.

## Functions 
logically connected codes  
function detection  
- binaries can be stripped  
- code might be scattered  
- overlapping code blocks  
- Assume functions are contiguous and don't share code   

Based on function signatures:  
- well-known patterns and epilogues  
- vary depending on the platform, compiler and optimization level used.  

Use $call$ for function so easy to locate.  
Indirect and tail-call function  

## Control Flow Graph  
CFG organize the inernals of a function  
automated analysis, manual analysis  
graphic representation  
basic blocks: 1st instruction is the only entry point, last instruction is the only exit point  
call edges are not part of CFG  

## Call Graph  
show relationship between call sites and functions rather than basic blocks  
indirect call not shown in call graph


direct call: call the specific funtion or address  
indirect call: call the address stored in a register.